README.md, before:

# Cumulus

Cumulus is a deployment tool used to deploy and maintain environments built with AWS CloudFormation. Cumulus will help you bundle your code and configuration and unpack the bundle to new instances on CloudFormation.


## Release notes

**0.5.0 (2013-10-28)**

- [Clean up host on bundle update #38](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/38)
- [Cumulus bundle handler should use Python logging #40](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/40)
- [Get rid of Cumulus metadata.conf and make the bundle handler self-contained #41](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/41)
- [Remove `__name__` from logging output #42](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/42)
- [Filter events when creating/updating/deleting stacks #43](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/43)
- [Add function for listing stack events on command line #45](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/45)
- [Enhance status output when waiting for stack change to complete #46](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/46)

**0.4.0 (2013-10-25)**

- [Path prefix in bundles #36](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/36)

**0.3.1 (2013-10-24)**

- [Error handling stack delete status #34](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/34)
- [Running `--deploy` on existing stack fails #35](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/35)
- [Initial stack creation fails when using `--deploy-without-bundling` #33](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/33)
- [Bundle type missing in Cumulus metadata #37](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/37)

**0.3.0 (2013-10-11)**

- [Write hooks for Cumulus deployments #26](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/26)
- [Wait until stack is done updating/creating #20](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/20)
- [Specify config file location as input parameter #30](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/30)
- [Set environment version as input parameter #28](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/28)
- [Make it possible to environment prefix whole directories #10](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/10)
- [Create shortcut for both bundling and deploying #27](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/27)
- [Ask before delete when running `--undeploy` #24](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/24)
- [Ensure that boto is available for cumulus bundle handler #25](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/25)
- [Remove skymill reference from JSON template #23](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/23)
- [Remove unnecessary stack name in metadata #22](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/22)
- [Remove unnecessary bundle-type in metadata #21](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/21)

**0.2.3 (2013-09-26)**

- [Symbolic links should be dereferenced in bundles #19](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/19)
- [Current directory is added to bundle #18](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/18)

**0.2.2 (2013-09-25)**

- [Mismatch in metadata and cumulus_bundle_handler.py #16](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/16)
- Various bug fixes in the bundle handler system

**0.2.1 (2013-09-25)**

- [Cumulus CF namespace conflicts with some rules #15](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/15)

**0.2.0 (2013-09-24)**

- [Custom parameters in CloudFormation #14](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/14)
- [Expand ~ in config template & bundle paths #12](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/12)
- [Read the bucket name from configuration in CF template #11](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/11)
- [Exception when building non-configured bundle #13](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/13)

**0.1.1 (2013-09-23)**

- [Prefixes for prefixed files is not removed in bundle #9](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/9)

**0.1.0 (2013-09-23)**

Initial release with some basic functions and concepts.

- Basic bundling and stack management features implemented

Commit message:

Added installation and doc generation info

README.md, after:

# Cumulus

Cumulus is a deployment tool used to deploy and maintain environments built with AWS CloudFormation. Cumulus will help you bundle your code and configuration and unpack the bundle to new instances on CloudFormation.

## Installation

Checkout the code and run

    make install

`cumulus` will now be available as a global command


## Generate documentation

Cumulus docs are generated using Sphinx. Generate documentation using


    make gen-docs

The HTML output is stored under `docs/_build/html`.


## Release notes

**0.5.0 (2013-10-28)**

- [Clean up host on bundle update #38](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/38)
- [Cumulus bundle handler should use Python logging #40](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/40)
- [Get rid of Cumulus metadata.conf and make the bundle handler self-contained #41](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/41)
- [Remove `__name__` from logging output #42](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/42)
- [Filter events when creating/updating/deleting stacks #43](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/43)
- [Add function for listing stack events on command line #45](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/45)
- [Enhance status output when waiting for stack change to complete #46](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/46)

**0.4.0 (2013-10-25)**

- [Path prefix in bundles #36](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/36)

**0.3.1 (2013-10-24)**

- [Error handling stack delete status #34](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/34)
- [Running `--deploy` on existing stack fails #35](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/35)
- [Initial stack creation fails when using `--deploy-without-bundling` #33](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/33)
- [Bundle type missing in Cumulus metadata #37](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/37)

**0.3.0 (2013-10-11)**

- [Write hooks for Cumulus deployments #26](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/26)
- [Wait until stack is done updating/creating #20](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/20)
- [Specify config file location as input parameter #30](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/30)
- [Set environment version as input parameter #28](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/28)
- [Make it possible to environment prefix whole directories #10](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/10)
- [Create shortcut for both bundling and deploying #27](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/27)
- [Ask before delete when running `--undeploy` #24](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/24)
- [Ensure that boto is available for cumulus bundle handler #25](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/25)
- [Remove skymill reference from JSON template #23](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/23)
- [Remove unnecessary stack name in metadata #22](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/22)
- [Remove unnecessary bundle-type in metadata #21](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/21)

**0.2.3 (2013-09-26)**

- [Symbolic links should be dereferenced in bundles #19](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/19)
- [Current directory is added to bundle #18](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/18)

**0.2.2 (2013-09-25)**

- [Mismatch in metadata and cumulus_bundle_handler.py #16](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/16)
- Various bug fixes in the bundle handler system

**0.2.1 (2013-09-25)**

- [Cumulus CF namespace conflicts with some rules #15](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/15)

**0.2.0 (2013-09-24)**

- [Custom parameters in CloudFormation #14](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/14)
- [Expand ~ in config template & bundle paths #12](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/12)
- [Read the bucket name from configuration in CF template #11](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/11)
- [Exception when building non-configured bundle #13](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/13)

**0.1.1 (2013-09-23)**

- [Prefixes for prefixed files is not removed in bundle #9](https://github.com/skymill/cumulus/issues/9)

**0.1.0 (2013-09-23)**

Initial release with some basic functions and concepts.

- Basic bundling and stack management features implemented
